README.md, before:

<h1 align="center">Hi there! 👋 I'm Oscar Santiago Monsalve Labrador</h1>

<p align="center">
  <strong>Software developer with a focus on backend</strong>
</p>

---

### 🧑‍💻 About Me

I’m a software developer specialized in backend development. I have knowledge in analysis, design, development, testing, and implementation of applications. I have experience building robust and maintainable RESTful APIs and working with GraphQL using Node.js, Express, and NestJS. I apply Clean Architecture principles. I’m currently pursuing a degree in Software Analysis and Development at SENA.

I've built APIs for collaborative project management, livestock control, and a microservices-based social network. I'm passionate about software architecture, performance, security, and writing clean, understandable code.

---

<p align="center"> 
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon@latest/icons/html5/html5-plain-wordmark.svg" alt="HTML" width="50" height="50" />
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon@latest/icons/php/php-original.svg" alt="PHP" width="50" height="50" />
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon@latest/icons/javascript/javascript-original.svg" alt="JavaScript" width="50" height="50" />
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon@latest/icons/typescript/typescript-original.svg" alt="Typescript" width="50" height="50"/>
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/nodejs/nodejs-original.svg" alt="Node.js" width="50" height="50"/>
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/express/express-original.svg" alt="Express" width="50" height="50"/> 
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon@latest/icons/nestjs/nestjs-original.svg" alt="NestJS" width="50" height="50"/>
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon@latest/icons/graphql/graphql-plain.svg" alt="GraphQL" width="50" height="50"/>
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/postgresql/postgresql-original.svg" alt="PostgreSQL" width="50" height="50"/>
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon@latest/icons/mysql/mysql-original-wordmark.svg" alt="MySQL" width="50" height="50" />
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon@latest/icons/socketio/socketio-original.svg" alt="Socket.io" width="50" height="50" />
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/redis/redis-original.svg" alt="Redis" width="50" height="50"/> 
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/docker/docker-original.svg" alt="Docker" width="50" height="50"/> 
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/git/git-original.svg" alt="Git" width="50" height="50"/> 
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon@latest/icons/github/github-original.svg" alt="GitHub" width=50" height="50" />
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon@latest/icons/jest/jest-plain.svg" alt="Jest" width="50" height="50" />
  <img src="./jwt-3.svg" alt="JWT" width="40" height="40" />
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon@latest/icons/oauth/oauth-original.svg" alt="OAuth2.0" width="50" height="50"/>
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/sequelize/sequelize-original.svg" alt="Sequelize" width="50" height="50"/> 
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon@latest/icons/prisma/prisma-original-wordmark.svg" alt="PrismaORM" width="60" height="50" />
</p>

---

### 🛠️ Technologies & Tools

- **Languages & Frameworks**: PHP, Node.js, Express, NestJS, Typescript, GraphQL(Apollo server)
- **Databases**: PostgreSQL, MySQL, SequelizeORM, PrismaORM, TypeORM
- **Cache & Messaging**: Redis, BullMQ
- **Security**: JWT, OAuth2.0
- **Other Tools**: Docker, Swagger, Git & GitHub
- **Architecture**: Clean Architecture, Domain-Driven Design (DDD) and Entity-based MVC
- **Testing**: Jest + Supertest

Currently learning: **Laravel and Symfony**, **Microservices**, **Software architecture**, **MongoDB**, **B1 English**

---

### 📌 Featured Projects

#### 🔹 [Trello-like API](https://github.com/OscarS05/Trello-like-project-api)
> Trello-like is an API for collaborative project management inspired by Trello. It includes features like authentication, user roles, workspaces, projects, teams, task assignment, checklists, members, and file attachments. Built with Node.js, Express, PostgreSQL, Sequelize ORM, Redis, JWT, BullMQ, and Docker. The project follows Clean Architecture and DDD principles.

#### 🔹 [Agroplus API](https://github.com/OscarS05/Agroplus-api)
> Agroplus-API is a GraphQL-enabled RESTful API designed to help farmers manage all relevant information about their livestock. It allows users to record, track, and manage animal data, including parentage, vaccination, deworming records, and personal notes.


#### 🔸 [Microservices Social Network (Basic)](https://github.com/OscarS05/microservices-basic-course)
> A simple social network backend implemented using microservices for posts, cache, database, and core services.

---

### 📚 Certifications & Learning

- 🎓 Finishing technologist degree in **Software Analysis and Development – SENA**
- 🎖️ Ongoing backend training via [Platzi](https://platzi.com/p/santiagomonsalve7030/): Backend Development with Node.js, Python, backend architecture, databases and more.

---

## 👨‍💻 Soft skills

- Self-taught
- Proactivity
- Teamwork
- Fast learning and adaptability
- Fellowship
- Problem solving

---

### 🌐 Let's Connect

- 🔗 [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/o-santiago-monsalve)
- 📫 Feel free to reach out if you'd like to collaborate!

---

Commit message:

Laravel, Livewire and blog-laravel were added

README.md, after:

<h1 align="center">Hi there! 👋 I'm Oscar Santiago Monsalve Labrador</h1>

<p align="center">
  <strong>Software developer with a focus on backend</strong>
</p>

---

### 🧑‍💻 About Me

I’m a software developer specialized in backend development. I have knowledge in analysis, design, development, testing, and implementation of applications. I have experience building robust and maintainable RESTful APIs and working with GraphQL using Node.js, Express, and NestJS, also PHP with Laravel. I apply Clean Architecture principles. I’m currently pursuing a degree in Software Analysis and Development at SENA.

I've built APIs for collaborative project management, livestock control, and a microservices-based social network, also a blog with Laravel. I'm passionate about software architecture, performance, security, and writing clean, understandable code.

---

<p align="center"> 
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon@latest/icons/html5/html5-plain-wordmark.svg" alt="HTML" width="50" height="50" />
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon@latest/icons/php/php-original.svg" alt="PHP" width="50" height="50" />
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon@latest/icons/laravel/laravel-original-wordmark.svg" alt="Laravel" width="50" height="50"/>
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon@latest/icons/livewire/livewire-original-wordmark.svg" alt="Livewire" width="50" height="50" />
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon@latest/icons/javascript/javascript-original.svg" alt="JavaScript" width="50" height="50" />
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon@latest/icons/typescript/typescript-original.svg" alt="Typescript" width="50" height="50"/>
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/nodejs/nodejs-original.svg" alt="Node.js" width="50" height="50"/>
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/express/express-original.svg" alt="Express" width="50" height="50"/> 
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon@latest/icons/nestjs/nestjs-original.svg" alt="NestJS" width="50" height="50"/>
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon@latest/icons/graphql/graphql-plain.svg" alt="GraphQL" width="50" height="50"/>
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/postgresql/postgresql-original.svg" alt="PostgreSQL" width="50" height="50"/>
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon@latest/icons/mysql/mysql-original-wordmark.svg" alt="MySQL" width="50" height="50" />
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon@latest/icons/socketio/socketio-original.svg" alt="Socket.io" width="50" height="50" />
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/redis/redis-original.svg" alt="Redis" width="50" height="50"/> 
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/docker/docker-original.svg" alt="Docker" width="50" height="50"/> 
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/git/git-original.svg" alt="Git" width="50" height="50"/> 
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon@latest/icons/github/github-original.svg" alt="GitHub" width=50" height="50" />
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon@latest/icons/jest/jest-plain.svg" alt="Jest" width="50" height="50" />
  <img src="./jwt-3.svg" alt="JWT" width="40" height="40" />
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon@latest/icons/oauth/oauth-original.svg" alt="OAuth2.0" width="50" height="50"/>
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/sequelize/sequelize-original.svg" alt="Sequelize" width="50" height="50"/> 
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon@latest/icons/prisma/prisma-original-wordmark.svg" alt="PrismaORM" width="60" height="50" />
</p>

---

### 🛠️ Technologies & Tools

- **Languages & Frameworks**: PHP, Laravel, Node.js, Express, NestJS, Typescript, GraphQL(Apollo server)
- **Databases**: PostgreSQL, MySQL, SequelizeORM, PrismaORM, TypeORM
- **Cache & Messaging**: Redis, BullMQ
- **Security**: JWT, OAuth2.0
- **Other Tools**: Docker, Swagger, Git & GitHub
- **Architecture**: Clean Architecture, Domain-Driven Design (DDD) and Entity-based MVC
- **Testing**: Jest + Supertest

Currently learning: **Symfony**, **MariaDB**, **Microservices**, **Software architecture**, **MongoDB**, **B1 English**

---

### 📌 Featured Projects

#### 🔹 [Trello-like API](https://github.com/OscarS05/Trello-like-project-api)
> Trello-like is an API for collaborative project management inspired by Trello. It includes features like authentication, user roles, workspaces, projects, teams, task assignment, checklists, members, and file attachments. Built with Node.js, Express, PostgreSQL, Sequelize ORM, Redis, JWT, BullMQ, and Docker. The project follows Clean Architecture and DDD principles.

#### 🔹 [Agroplus API](https://github.com/OscarS05/Agroplus-api)
> Agroplus-API is a GraphQL-enabled RESTful API designed to help farmers manage all relevant information about their livestock. It allows users to record, track, and manage animal data, including parentage, vaccination, deworming records, and personal notes.


#### 🔸 [Microservices Social Network](https://github.com/OscarS05/microservices-basic-course)
> A simple social network backend implemented using microservices for posts, cache, database, and core services.


#### 🔸 [Blog - Laravel](https://github.com/OscarS05/blog-laravel)
> A question and answer forum built with **Laravel** and **Livewire**. It allows users to log in or register, create questions, reply, comment, react with hearts, edit, and delete their questions.

---

### 📚 Certifications & Learning

- 🎓 Finishing technologist degree in **Software Analysis and Development – SENA**
- 🎖️ Ongoing backend training via [Platzi](https://platzi.com/p/santiagomonsalve7030/): Backend Development with Node.js, Python, backend architecture, databases and more.

---

## 👨‍💻 Soft skills

- Self-taught
- Proactivity
- Teamwork
- Fast learning and adaptability
- Fellowship
- Problem solving

---

### 🌐 Let's Connect

- 🔗 [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/o-santiago-monsalve)
- 📫 Feel free to reach out if you'd like to collaborate!

---
